call.md, before:

---
layout: page  
title: Call for Contributions
description: The call for paper, music, and workshop contributions for NIME2025.
permalink: /call/
template_link: https://github.com/NIME-conference/nime-template/releases/tag/v2024.12.02
cmt_link: https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2025
---

We invite you to be a part of NIME2025, _entangled NIME_, the International Conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression. NIME2025 will take place at The Australian National University, Ngunnawal and Ngambri Country, Canberra, Australia with support for in-person and remote presentation.

We invite submissions of new scholarly and creative works in the following categories:

- Paper (6000-, 4000-, and 2000-word lengths)
- Music (live performance, installation, remote)
- Workshop

All NIME submissions are made through [CMT](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2025) and use the [NIME Template]({{ page.template_link }}). 
We encourage submitters to use the LaTeX templates and tools such as Overleaf where possible.

Submission deadlines and specific information for each category of submission can be found below.

We particularly wish to encourage submissions from artists and scholars who are women, queer, or gender diverse, are First Nations people, young/emerging, historically marginalised, have a disability or are Deaf, or who simply work outside of academia and mainstream institutions. We suggest joining the [NIME Forum](https://forum.nime.org/) where you are able to get updates and support from the NIME2025 committee and community in developing your submission.

We note that travel is not required to publish and present work at NIME 2025. Decoupling publication and travel supports inclusive participation in our field. The calls below include requirements for remote participation. We note that NIME submissions (papers, music, workshops) are subject to the [NIME Principles & Code of Practice on Ethical Research](https://nime.org/ethics/) and ask all submitters to consider accessibility implications that may be relevant to their proposals. We welcome conversations regarding accessibility potential of submissions.

#### Important Dates:

All dates are 23:59 AoE [(Anywhere on Earth)](https://www.timeanddate.com/time/zones/aoe)

- **4 December, 2024: Submission [CMT site](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2025) opens**
- **29 January, 2025: Paper and Music - Titles, abstracts and author lists due in CMT**
- **5 February, 2025: Paper and Music -  Final submissions due in CMT**
- **19 February, 2025: Workshop submissions due in CMT**
- **2 April, 2025: Acceptance decisions and reviews released**
- **30 April, 2025: Camera ready and presenter registration deadline**
- **24 June, 2025: NIME Workshops**
- **25 - 27 June, 2025: NIME Conference**

Submission information for all tracks is available here:[https://nime2025.org/submissions/](https://nime2025.org/submissions/). 

{: .info-box }
If you’d like to register as a NIME reviewer (or are unsure if you’re already a reviewer), please register as a reviewer using [this form](https://forms.office.com/r/eZ2qVU8MbE).

### Call for Papers

We welcome submissions of original research on scientific and artistic use of new interfaces for musical expression. A non-exhaustive list of NIME-related topics is found below. There are three different paper submission classes by word lengths:

- 6000 words (now "long", formerly “long”)
- 4000 words (now "medium", formerly “short”)
- 2000 words (now "short", formerly “demo”)

Authors are encouraged to submit a paper with an appropriate length for the intended contribution. All length classes will undergo the same review process, with guidelines for reviewers expectations. We encourage authors to make use of the shorter classes. All length classes are eligible for _oral_ or _poster_ presentation if accepted. Papers are expected to have a contribution commensurate with their length. For the short paper category, we welcome submission that proposes an original and innovation technology, technical approaches, or prototype (with or without an accompanying evaluation) that provokes novel conversations and contribute meaningfully to the NIME field.

Original contributions are encouraged in, but not limited to, the following topics:

- NIME2025 theme: entangled NIME 
- Novel controllers, interfaces or instruments for musical expression
- Augmented, embedded and hyper instruments
- Technologies or systems for collaborative music-making
- New performance paradigms for mobile music-making
- Music-related human-computer interaction
- Sensor and actuator technologies, including haptics and force feedback devices
- Musical mapping strategies
- Explorations of relationships between motion, gesture and music
- Evaluation and user studies of new interfaces for musical expression
- Evaluation and user studies of commercially available “off the shelf” interfaces
- Interfaces for musical expression for people with special needs
- Musical applications of robotics
- Interactive sound art and installations
- Performance rendering and generative algorithms
- Machine learning in musical performance
- Web-based music performance
- Software frameworks, interface protocols, and data formats, for supporting musical interaction
- Historical, theoretical or philosophical discussions about designing or performing with new interfaces
- Discussions about the artistic, cultural, and social impact of NIME technology
- Sonic interaction design
- Pedagogical perspectives or reports on student projects in the framework of NIME-related courses
- Practice-based research approaches/methodologies/criticism

#### Important notes for Papers:

- Accepted papers will be published online on the conference website and eventually on [NIME.org](http://nime.org/) as part of the Proceedings of the International Conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression.
- All paper category submissions must be completely anonymised, including, but not limited to authors, references, and specific project names that can clearly identify the author(s).
- A manuscript submitted for review cannot be already under review for publication elsewhere or be submitted for a second review elsewhere while under review for NIME.
- At least one author of accepted submissions must purchase conference registration by the publication-ready deadline to be included in the conference.
- Accepted submissions presented remotely in oral paper sessions will preferably be a live synchronous presentation (we expect to use [this setup](https://charlesmartin.au/blog/2023/07/20/hybrid-conference) for streaming).
- Accepted submissions presented remotely for poster/demo sessions will be by asynchronous pre-recorded video presentation.

Submission information is available here: [https://nime2025.org/submissions/](https://nime2025.org/submissions/) 

#### Paper Review Process:

All paper submissions will be subjected to a rigorous double-blind peer review process by an international committee of experts. All submissions are evaluated in terms of originality, significance, research quality, and clarity. The process is as follows:

- Each paper submission will be assigned to at least 3 reviewers for evaluation;
- A meta-reviewer will moderate a discussion amongst reviewers, write a summary review, & recommend whether to accept the paper, and
- The committee chairs will make the final decision on paper acceptance and will inform the author(s) of their decision along with the reviewers’ comments.

The review process is double-blind, meaning reviewers remain anonymous to the authors and vice-versa. It is expected that authors respect the NIME Ethical guidelines for NIME publications.

### Call for Music

We invite submission of proposals that showcase new interfaces for musical expression in composition and performance. We look forward to receiving submissions that expand and reshape our understanding of NIME in the performance, conceptualisation, and reception of music.

Typical NIME performance pieces last for 5-15 minutes, but shorter and longer performance proposals may also be taken into consideration. There are three categories for music submissions at NIME2025:

- Live Performance
- Remote Performance
- Installation

Live performances should involve the author performing **in-person** at NIME. Remote performances may involve an online connection to an artist not present at NIME, or some other method of performing remotely. Remote performance submissions will need to clearly document the technical requirements to produce the work at NIME. Installations could include physical works to be exhibited in foyer, room, or gallery space as well as virtual works that exist online.

Please contact the Music or General Chairs with any questions regarding the suitability of a potential NIME music submission.

Submission information is available here: [https://nime2025.org/submissions/](https://nime2025.org/submissions/)

#### Important Notes for Music Submissions:

- All music submissions must include a PDF submission document using the [NIME music template]({{ page.template_link }}). 
- Music submissions should have the following sections: **Project Description, Technical Notes, Program Notes, Media Links, Acknowledgements (optional), Ethical Standards, References**. Submissions should include images and diagrams as necessary to help reviewers understand the work and how it might be staged. 
- Submissions without an appropriate PDF document including the above sections may not be reviewed.
- Music submissions must include a link to **video documentation** of the proposed work.
- Submissions will be published on the conference website and on [NIME.org](http://nime.org/) as part of the Music Proceedings of the International Conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression.
- We ask for soft anonymisation of music submissions: author names should not appear in the PDF submission, video documentation or account names that are linked from submissions. You don’t have to blur or obscure faces in videos or images.
- The NIME organisers cannot provide funding to support performers’ travel or accommodation at the conference.
- If a music submission is accepted, proposing artists are expected to be available to perform their work on any day of the conference.
- At least one author of accepted music submissions must purchase conference registration by the publication-ready deadline to be included in the conference.
- Creators are encouraged to propose Remote Performances if they feel they will be unable to travel to attend NIME2025. Please note that we may not be able to accommodate last minute changes from live to remote performances.

#### Music Review Process:

All music submissions will be subject to rigorous double-blind peer review by an international committee of experts. All submissions are evaluated in terms of originality, significance, technical quality, and feasibility. The process is as follows:

- Each music submission will be assigned to at least 3 reviewers for evaluation;
- The committee chairs will make the final decision on music acceptance and will inform the creator(s) of their decision along with the reviewers’ comments.
- Production details for accepted works will be arranged through the music chairs following acceptance notifications.

### Call for Workshops

We welcome proposals for workshops related to NIME research, topics relevant for the NIME community, NIME performance and this year’s theme. NIME workshops can take the form of community development or co-design events, focussed tutorials on specific NIME topics, sub-conferences on specific topics including presentations by NIME attendees, or other types of events that you propose. Workshops can be proposed to be short (up to three hours) or long (up to six hours).

Workshop proposals should use the [music submission template]({{ page.template_link }}), should not be anonymised,  and should have the following sections:

1. Motivation: Describe the rationale for the workshop, issues that will be addressed, and clear objectives with reference to NIME topics, themes, and previous publications.
2. Workshop Structure: Describe the planned activities or events taking place in the workshop.
3. Organisers: Include Workshop organiser(s) with short bio(s) up to 200 words including background relating to proposed topic, and affiliation and contact information. Include additional speakers name(s), affiliation(s), and contact information.
4. Description of technical and space requirements: Including equipment required or brought by organisers; information on whether in-person or hybrid attendance is supported; expected size of event; and specific venue features.
5. Acknowledgements (optional).
6. Ethics statement
7. Media links (optional): Links to supporting audio, visual, and/or online documentation, e.g. a workshop web page.
8. References

Submission information is available here: [https://nime2025.org/submissions/](https://nime2025.org/submissions/)

#### Important Notes for Workshop Submissions:

- At least one author of accepted workshops must purchase conference registration by the publication-ready deadline to be included in the conference.

#### Workshop Review Process:

All workshop submissions will be subjected to a single-blind peer review process by an international committee of experts. Proposals will be evaluated in terms of relevance, potential significance to attendees, and feasibility. Proposers should also familiarise themselves with the NIME statements on diversity and environmental issues. The review process is as follows:

- Each proposal will be assigned to at least 3 reviewers for independent evaluation.
- The workshop chairs will make the final decision on workshop acceptance and will inform the author(s) of their decision along with the reviewers’ comments.

Commit message:

updated media links on supplementary material in call

call.md, after:

---
layout: page  
title: Call for Contributions
description: The call for paper, music, and workshop contributions for NIME2025.
permalink: /call/
template_link: https://github.com/NIME-conference/nime-template/releases/tag/v2024.12.02
cmt_link: https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2025
---

We invite you to be a part of NIME2025, _entangled NIME_, the International Conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression. NIME2025 will take place at The Australian National University, Ngunnawal and Ngambri Country, Canberra, Australia with support for in-person and remote presentation.

We invite submissions of new scholarly and creative works in the following categories:

- Paper (6000-, 4000-, and 2000-word lengths)
- Music (live performance, installation, remote)
- Workshop

All NIME submissions are made through [CMT](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2025) and use the [NIME Template]({{ page.template_link }}). 
We encourage submitters to use the LaTeX templates and tools such as Overleaf where possible.

Submission deadlines and specific information for each category of submission can be found below.

We particularly wish to encourage submissions from artists and scholars who are women, queer, or gender diverse, are First Nations people, young/emerging, historically marginalised, have a disability or are Deaf, or who simply work outside of academia and mainstream institutions. We suggest joining the [NIME Forum](https://forum.nime.org/) where you are able to get updates and support from the NIME2025 committee and community in developing your submission.

We note that travel is not required to publish and present work at NIME 2025. Decoupling publication and travel supports inclusive participation in our field. The calls below include requirements for remote participation. We note that NIME submissions (papers, music, workshops) are subject to the [NIME Principles & Code of Practice on Ethical Research](https://nime.org/ethics/) and ask all submitters to consider accessibility implications that may be relevant to their proposals. We welcome conversations regarding accessibility potential of submissions.

#### Important Dates:

All dates are 23:59 AoE [(Anywhere on Earth)](https://www.timeanddate.com/time/zones/aoe)

- **4 December, 2024: Submission [CMT site](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2025) opens**
- **29 January, 2025: Paper and Music - Titles, abstracts and author lists due in CMT**
- **5 February, 2025: Paper and Music -  Final submissions due in CMT**
- **19 February, 2025: Workshop submissions due in CMT**
- **2 April, 2025: Acceptance decisions and reviews released**
- **30 April, 2025: Camera ready and presenter registration deadline**
- **24 June, 2025: NIME Workshops**
- **25 - 27 June, 2025: NIME Conference**

Submission information for all tracks is available here:[https://nime2025.org/submissions/](https://nime2025.org/submissions/). 

{: .info-box }
If you’d like to register as a NIME reviewer (or are unsure if you’re already a reviewer), please register as a reviewer using [this form](https://forms.office.com/r/eZ2qVU8MbE).

### Call for Papers

We welcome submissions of original research on scientific and artistic use of new interfaces for musical expression. A non-exhaustive list of NIME-related topics is found below. There are three different paper submission classes by word lengths:

- 6000 words (now "long", formerly “long”)
- 4000 words (now "medium", formerly “short”)
- 2000 words (now "short", formerly “demo”)

Authors are encouraged to submit a paper with an appropriate length for the intended contribution. All length classes will undergo the same review process, with guidelines for reviewers expectations. We encourage authors to make use of the shorter classes. All length classes are eligible for _oral_ or _poster_ presentation if accepted. Papers are expected to have a contribution commensurate with their length. For the short paper category, we welcome submission that proposes an original and innovation technology, technical approaches, or prototype (with or without an accompanying evaluation) that provokes novel conversations and contribute meaningfully to the NIME field.

Original contributions are encouraged in, but not limited to, the following topics:

- NIME2025 theme: entangled NIME 
- Novel controllers, interfaces or instruments for musical expression
- Augmented, embedded and hyper instruments
- Technologies or systems for collaborative music-making
- New performance paradigms for mobile music-making
- Music-related human-computer interaction
- Sensor and actuator technologies, including haptics and force feedback devices
- Musical mapping strategies
- Explorations of relationships between motion, gesture and music
- Evaluation and user studies of new interfaces for musical expression
- Evaluation and user studies of commercially available “off the shelf” interfaces
- Interfaces for musical expression for people with special needs
- Musical applications of robotics
- Interactive sound art and installations
- Performance rendering and generative algorithms
- Machine learning in musical performance
- Web-based music performance
- Software frameworks, interface protocols, and data formats, for supporting musical interaction
- Historical, theoretical or philosophical discussions about designing or performing with new interfaces
- Discussions about the artistic, cultural, and social impact of NIME technology
- Sonic interaction design
- Pedagogical perspectives or reports on student projects in the framework of NIME-related courses
- Practice-based research approaches/methodologies/criticism

#### Important notes for Papers:

- Accepted papers will be published online on the conference website and eventually on [NIME.org](http://nime.org/) as part of the Proceedings of the International Conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression.
- All paper category submissions must be completely anonymised, including, but not limited to authors, references, and specific project names that can clearly identify the author(s).
- A manuscript submitted for review cannot be already under review for publication elsewhere or be submitted for a second review elsewhere while under review for NIME.
- At least one author of accepted submissions must purchase conference registration by the publication-ready deadline to be included in the conference.
- Accepted submissions presented remotely in oral paper sessions will preferably be a live synchronous presentation (we expect to use [this setup](https://charlesmartin.au/blog/2023/07/20/hybrid-conference) for streaming).
- Accepted submissions presented remotely for poster/demo sessions will be by asynchronous pre-recorded video presentation.

Submission information is available here: [https://nime2025.org/submissions/](https://nime2025.org/submissions/) 

#### Paper Review Process:

All paper submissions will be subjected to a rigorous double-blind peer review process by an international committee of experts. All submissions are evaluated in terms of originality, significance, research quality, and clarity. The process is as follows:

- Each paper submission will be assigned to at least 3 reviewers for evaluation;
- A meta-reviewer will moderate a discussion amongst reviewers, write a summary review, & recommend whether to accept the paper, and
- The committee chairs will make the final decision on paper acceptance and will inform the author(s) of their decision along with the reviewers’ comments.

The review process is double-blind, meaning reviewers remain anonymous to the authors and vice-versa. It is expected that authors respect the NIME Ethical guidelines for NIME publications.

### Call for Music

We invite submission of proposals that showcase new interfaces for musical expression in composition and performance. We look forward to receiving submissions that expand and reshape our understanding of NIME in the performance, conceptualisation, and reception of music.

Typical NIME performance pieces last for 5-15 minutes, but shorter and longer performance proposals may also be taken into consideration. There are three categories for music submissions at NIME2025:

- Live Performance
- Remote Performance
- Installation

Live performances should involve the author performing **in-person** at NIME. Remote performances may involve an online connection to an artist not present at NIME, or some other method of performing remotely. Remote performance submissions will need to clearly document the technical requirements to produce the work at NIME. Installations could include physical works to be exhibited in foyer, room, or gallery space as well as virtual works that exist online.

Please contact the Music or General Chairs with any questions regarding the suitability of a potential NIME music submission.

Submission information is available here: [https://nime2025.org/submissions/](https://nime2025.org/submissions/)

#### Important Notes for Music Submissions:

- All music submissions must include a PDF submission document using the [NIME music template]({{ page.template_link }}). 
- Music submissions should have the following sections: **Project Description, Technical Notes, Program Notes, Media Links, Acknowledgements (optional), Ethical Standards, References**. Submissions should include images and diagrams as necessary to help reviewers understand the work and how it might be staged. 
- Submissions without an appropriate PDF document including the above sections may not be reviewed.
- Music submissions must include a link to **video documentation** of the proposed work or upload a video as **Supplementary Material**.
- Submissions will be published on the conference website and on [NIME.org](http://nime.org/) as part of the Music Proceedings of the International Conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression.
- We ask for soft anonymisation of music submissions: author names should not appear in the PDF submission, video documentation or account names that are linked from submissions. You don’t have to blur or obscure faces in videos or images.
- The NIME organisers cannot provide funding to support performers’ travel or accommodation at the conference.
- If a music submission is accepted, proposing artists are expected to be available to perform their work on any day of the conference.
- At least one author of accepted music submissions must purchase conference registration by the publication-ready deadline to be included in the conference.
- Creators are encouraged to propose Remote Performances if they feel they will be unable to travel to attend NIME2025. Please note that we may not be able to accommodate last minute changes from live to remote performances.

#### Music Review Process:

All music submissions will be subject to rigorous double-blind peer review by an international committee of experts. All submissions are evaluated in terms of originality, significance, technical quality, and feasibility. The process is as follows:

- Each music submission will be assigned to at least 3 reviewers for evaluation;
- The committee chairs will make the final decision on music acceptance and will inform the creator(s) of their decision along with the reviewers’ comments.
- Production details for accepted works will be arranged through the music chairs following acceptance notifications.

### Call for Workshops

We welcome proposals for workshops related to NIME research, topics relevant for the NIME community, NIME performance and this year’s theme. NIME workshops can take the form of community development or co-design events, focussed tutorials on specific NIME topics, sub-conferences on specific topics including presentations by NIME attendees, or other types of events that you propose. Workshops can be proposed to be short (up to three hours) or long (up to six hours).

Workshop proposals should use the [music submission template]({{ page.template_link }}), should not be anonymised,  and should have the following sections:

1. Motivation: Describe the rationale for the workshop, issues that will be addressed, and clear objectives with reference to NIME topics, themes, and previous publications.
2. Workshop Structure: Describe the planned activities or events taking place in the workshop.
3. Organisers: Include Workshop organiser(s) with short bio(s) up to 200 words including background relating to proposed topic, and affiliation and contact information. Include additional speakers name(s), affiliation(s), and contact information.
4. Description of technical and space requirements: Including equipment required or brought by organisers; information on whether in-person or hybrid attendance is supported; expected size of event; and specific venue features.
5. Acknowledgements (optional).
6. Ethics statement
7. Media links (optional): Links to supporting audio, visual, and/or online documentation, e.g. a workshop web page.
8. References

Submission information is available here: [https://nime2025.org/submissions/](https://nime2025.org/submissions/)

#### Important Notes for Workshop Submissions:

- At least one author of accepted workshops must purchase conference registration by the publication-ready deadline to be included in the conference.

#### Workshop Review Process:

All workshop submissions will be subjected to a single-blind peer review process by an international committee of experts. Proposals will be evaluated in terms of relevance, potential significance to attendees, and feasibility. Proposers should also familiarise themselves with the NIME statements on diversity and environmental issues. The review process is as follows:

- Each proposal will be assigned to at least 3 reviewers for independent evaluation.
- The workshop chairs will make the final decision on workshop acceptance and will inform the author(s) of their decision along with the reviewers’ comments.
