camera-ready.md, before:

---
layout: page  
title: Publication Ready (Camera-Ready) Submission
description: Preparing your accepted work for the conference.
permalink: /camera-ready/
cmt_link: https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2025
template_link: https://github.com/NIME-conference/nime-template/releases/tag/v2024.12.02
---
{: .info-box}
This page (will) provide clear and consistent instructions for preparing your accepted or conditionally accepted work for the conference. You will need to upload your updated submission document and you may have to submit other materials that will enable your work to be presented (e.g., for some forms of remote presentation).

The ["camera ready"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camera-ready) version of your submission is the version that you will be presenting at the conference and will be archived in the [NIME Proceedings Archive](https://nime.org). Every accepted submission will be invited to submit a camera ready version of their accepted document [CMT]({{ cmt_link }}) by the camera ready deadline and **must do so** to be included in the conference (even if minimal or no changes are required).

Below we have specific instructions for:

- [paper track](#paper-track)
- [music track](#music-track)
- [workshop track](#workshop-track)

## Paper Track {#paper-track}

Here are the camera-ready and presentation requirements for papers.

### Checklist for Camera-Ready

- Your submission PDF is in the correct format as outlined on the [submission page]({% link submissions.md %}).
- Your submission PDF is not anonymised and the author names and order match the names and order listed in CMT.
- Your submission PDF includes an ethics statement.
- Your submission PDF is within the word count of its correct paper category (6000 words for Long Papers, 4000 words for Medium Papers, 2000 words for Short Papers). The word count does not include Abstract, References, Acknowledgements, and References. 
- If conditionally accepted, your submission PDF has been updated to address any specific requirements of reviewers or meta-reviewer.
- You are aware and accept that your submission PDF and image will be published on <https://nime2025.org> under a [CC BY 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en).

### Notes on the camera ready PDF file

- You do not need to add CCS concepts for NIME papers (no matter what the latex template warnings say).
- You should not set `printacmref=true` for NIME papers (no matter what the latex template warnings say).
- The document settings for your file should be `\documentclass[sigconf]{nimeart}` (this produces a clean, non-anonymous PDF with no line or page numbers, )

Note that you may upload one video file (`mp4` format, up to 350MB) as a supplementary file to your submission which will be archived within the NIME proceedings.

### Presentation Format

{: .info-box}
You should have received an email from us about your assigned presentation format.
Please upload the associated required material on CMT by **30 May AOE**.
Please reach out to [yichen.wang@anu.edu.au](yichen.wang@anu.edu.au) if you have any questions.

All accepted paper submissions (short, medium or long category) will receive a presentation slot (either **oral** or **poster**) at the conference, independent of onsite or remote attendance.

Your submission's presentation falls under of the following four categories, as notified by the Paper Chairs, which will be sent out soon.

|               | Oral Presentation                                                    | Poster                  |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| **Onsite**    | 5/8/12-minute presentation (short/medium/long paper) + Q&A           | A0 Physical Poster      |
| **Remote**    | Synchronous remote presentation (live during session) + Q&A          | 5-minute recorded video |
{: .table }

**Optional**: Authors with **accepted** work attending the conference **onsite** are welcome to bring their system and demonstrate it (if applicable) during the poster sessions. For example, if you will give an onsite oral presentation about a musical system, you are welcome to bring it along to showcase during the poster sessions.

#### Key Requirements for All:

- A teaser image (e.g., 1000px wide, jpeg, jpg or png) to display on the conference website's paper gallery ([example](https://nime2025.org/proceedings/100.html)).
- The associated material (if any) as indicated in the table above.
- This submission is through the **same Camera Ready Submission Form** on CMT, the same field used to upload your paper submission file.
- **Important Date:** Please upload the associated required material by **30 May AOE**.

#### Physical Poster Requirements (Onsite):

- Poster size: A0.
- Orientation: Portrait.
- Posters should include (1) the title, authors’ names, and affiliations, (2) a concise overview of the research, (3) clear illustrations of key aspects of your presenting work, and (4) a compelling visual design. 
- **Please print the poster beforehand and bring with it to the conference venue.** If you want to print your poster in Canberra, [Copy Qik](https://copyqik.com.au), [Officeworks Braddon](https://www.officeworks.com.au/print-copy/p/colour-posters-pcppcopcp), [Kwik Kopy Canberra](https://canberrashop.kwikkopy.com.au/product/posters-a0/34916) are within walking distance of ANU campus.

#### Remote Video Requirements (For Remote Poster Presentations):

- There is no specific presentation style required for the video; however, the video should highlight the main points you wish to convey, so conference attendees will be interested in reading your paper. 
Please display the work’s title and author information at the beginning of the video.
- All remote poster presentation videos will be played non-stop on a single-screen theatre for attendees to watch during the poster sessions.
- Duration limit: 5 minutes.
- All videos must be encoded in MP4 format using the H.264 codec.
- Resolution must be precisely 1080p (1920 x 1080) or 4k (3840 x 2160), with a 16:9 aspect ratio. 
- File size limit: 300 MB.



## Music Track {#music-track}

Here are the camera-ready and presentation requirements for the music track:

### Camera Ready Checklist

- Your submission PDF is in the correct format as outlined on the [submission page]({% link submissions.md %}).
- Your submission PDF is not anonymised and the author names and order match the names and order listed in CMT.
- Your submission PDF has the appropriate sections as explained in the [call]({% link call.md %})
- You have an image 1000px in width to upload in the camera-ready form. 
- You are aware and accept that your submission PDF and image will be published on <https://nime2025.org> under a [CC BY 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en).

### Presentation Requirements

| Type               | Draft scheduling details                                   | Camera Ready Requirements                                                                            |
|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Live Performance**   | 20 minutes of concert time for performance and change over.     | updated submission PDF (see checklist), image for website, plain text list of technical requirements |
| **Remote Performance** | 20 minutes of concert time for performance and  change over.     | updated submission PDF (see checklist), image for website, plain text list of technical requirements |
| **Installation**       | Installation venue with sound and projection or large screen for at least one day of the conference. | updated submission PDF (see checklist), image for website, plain text list of technical requirements |
{: .table }

Note that at a basic level we will provide a two-channel sound system and projection capabilities for all live/remote performances and installations. Performances requiring sptial audio or a Disklavier piano will be scheduled in concerts within our recording studio and will require some additional discussion to confirm arrangements.

We may be able to provide some additional equipment (e.g., DI boxes, XLR cables, power boards) that would be typically provided by a concert venue but this is subject to approval by the paper and general chairs. Specific equipment such as computers or interfaces cannot be provided by the conference.

We will provide time line/sound-checking all performances but ask that artists are as prepared as possible for a plug-and-play experience given the tight schedule of the conference.

## Workshop Track {#workshop-track}

Here are the camera-ready and presentaiton requirements for the workshop track

### Checklist 

- Your submission PDF is in the correct format as outlined on the [submission page]({% link submissions.md %}).
- Your submission PDF is not anonymised and the author names and order match the names and order listed in CMT.
- Your submission PDF has the appropriate sections as explained in the [call]({% link call.md %})
- Your submission PDF includes an ethics statement.
- You have an image 1000px in width to upload in the camera-ready form. 
- You are aware and accept that your submission PDF and image will be published on <https://nime2025.org> under a [CC BY 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en).

Commit message:

add clarification re preso materials

camera-ready.md, after:

---
layout: page  
title: Publication Ready (Camera-Ready) Submission
description: Preparing your accepted work for the conference.
permalink: /camera-ready/
cmt_link: https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2025
template_link: https://github.com/NIME-conference/nime-template/releases/tag/v2024.12.02
---
{: .info-box}
This page (will) provide clear and consistent instructions for preparing your accepted or conditionally accepted work for the conference. You will need to upload your updated submission document and you may have to submit other materials that will enable your work to be presented (e.g., for some forms of remote presentation).

The ["camera ready"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camera-ready) version of your submission is the version that you will be presenting at the conference and will be archived in the [NIME Proceedings Archive](https://nime.org). Every accepted submission will be invited to submit a camera ready version of their accepted document [CMT]({{ cmt_link }}) by the camera ready deadline and **must do so** to be included in the conference (even if minimal or no changes are required).

Below we have specific instructions for:

- [paper track](#paper-track)
- [music track](#music-track)
- [workshop track](#workshop-track)

## Paper Track {#paper-track}

Here are the camera-ready and presentation requirements for papers.

### Checklist for Camera-Ready

- Your submission PDF is in the correct format as outlined on the [submission page]({% link submissions.md %}).
- Your submission PDF is not anonymised and the author names and order match the names and order listed in CMT.
- Your submission PDF includes an ethics statement.
- Your submission PDF is within the word count of its correct paper category (6000 words for Long Papers, 4000 words for Medium Papers, 2000 words for Short Papers). The word count does not include Abstract, References, Acknowledgements, and References. 
- If conditionally accepted, your submission PDF has been updated to address any specific requirements of reviewers or meta-reviewer.
- You are aware and accept that your submission PDF and image will be published on <https://nime2025.org> under a [CC BY 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en).

### Notes on the camera ready PDF file

- You do not need to add CCS concepts for NIME papers (no matter what the latex template warnings say).
- You should not set `printacmref=true` for NIME papers (no matter what the latex template warnings say).
- The document settings for your file should be `\documentclass[sigconf]{nimeart}` (this produces a clean, non-anonymous PDF with no line or page numbers, )

Note that you may upload one video file (`mp4` format, up to 350MB) as a supplementary file to your submission which will be archived within the NIME proceedings.

### Presentation Format

{: .info-box}
You should have received an email from us about your assigned presentation format.
Please upload the associated required material on CMT by **30 May AOE**.
Please reach out to [yichen.wang@anu.edu.au](yichen.wang@anu.edu.au) if you have any questions.

All accepted paper submissions (short, medium or long category) will receive a presentation slot (either **oral** or **poster**) at the conference, independent of onsite or remote attendance.

Your submission's presentation falls under of the following four categories, as notified by the Paper Chairs, which will be sent out soon.

|               | Oral Presentation                                                    | Poster                  |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| **Onsite**    | 5/8/12-minute presentation (short/medium/long paper) + Q&A           | A0 Physical Poster      |
| **Remote**    | Synchronous remote presentation (live during session) + Q&A          | 5-minute recorded video |
{: .table }

**Optional**: Authors with **accepted** work attending the conference **onsite** are welcome to bring their system and demonstrate it (if applicable) during the poster sessions. For example, if you will give an onsite oral presentation about a musical system, you are welcome to bring it along to showcase during the poster sessions.

#### Key Requirements for All:

- A teaser image (e.g., 1000px wide, jpeg, jpg or png) to display on the conference website's paper gallery ([example](https://nime2025.org/proceedings/100.html)).
- The associated material (if any) as indicated in the table above.
    - For remote poster: please upload your video on CMT.
    - For oral presentation and onsite poster: you do not need to upload your presentation materials.
- This submission is through the **same Camera Ready Submission Form** on CMT, the same field used to upload your paper submission file.
- **Important Date:** Please upload the associated required material by **30 May AOE**.

#### Physical Poster Requirements (Onsite):

- Poster size: A0.
- Orientation: Portrait.
- Posters should include (1) the title, authors’ names, and affiliations, (2) a concise overview of the research, (3) clear illustrations of key aspects of your presenting work, and (4) a compelling visual design. 
- **Please print the poster beforehand and bring with it to the conference venue.** If you want to print your poster in Canberra, [Copy Qik](https://copyqik.com.au), [Officeworks Braddon](https://www.officeworks.com.au/print-copy/p/colour-posters-pcppcopcp), [Kwik Kopy Canberra](https://canberrashop.kwikkopy.com.au/product/posters-a0/34916) are within walking distance of ANU campus.

#### Remote Video Requirements (For Remote Poster Presentations):

- There is no specific presentation style required for the video; however, the video should highlight the main points you wish to convey, so conference attendees will be interested in reading your paper. 
Please display the work’s title and author information at the beginning of the video.
- All remote poster presentation videos will be played non-stop on a single-screen theatre for attendees to watch during the poster sessions.
- Duration limit: 5 minutes.
- All videos must be encoded in MP4 format using the H.264 codec.
- Resolution must be precisely 1080p (1920 x 1080) or 4k (3840 x 2160), with a 16:9 aspect ratio. 
- File size limit: 300 MB.



## Music Track {#music-track}

Here are the camera-ready and presentation requirements for the music track:

### Camera Ready Checklist

- Your submission PDF is in the correct format as outlined on the [submission page]({% link submissions.md %}).
- Your submission PDF is not anonymised and the author names and order match the names and order listed in CMT.
- Your submission PDF has the appropriate sections as explained in the [call]({% link call.md %})
- You have an image 1000px in width to upload in the camera-ready form. 
- You are aware and accept that your submission PDF and image will be published on <https://nime2025.org> under a [CC BY 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en).

### Presentation Requirements

| Type               | Draft scheduling details                                   | Camera Ready Requirements                                                                            |
|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Live Performance**   | 20 minutes of concert time for performance and change over.     | updated submission PDF (see checklist), image for website, plain text list of technical requirements |
| **Remote Performance** | 20 minutes of concert time for performance and  change over.     | updated submission PDF (see checklist), image for website, plain text list of technical requirements |
| **Installation**       | Installation venue with sound and projection or large screen for at least one day of the conference. | updated submission PDF (see checklist), image for website, plain text list of technical requirements |
{: .table }

Note that at a basic level we will provide a two-channel sound system and projection capabilities for all live/remote performances and installations. Performances requiring sptial audio or a Disklavier piano will be scheduled in concerts within our recording studio and will require some additional discussion to confirm arrangements.

We may be able to provide some additional equipment (e.g., DI boxes, XLR cables, power boards) that would be typically provided by a concert venue but this is subject to approval by the paper and general chairs. Specific equipment such as computers or interfaces cannot be provided by the conference.

We will provide time line/sound-checking all performances but ask that artists are as prepared as possible for a plug-and-play experience given the tight schedule of the conference.

## Workshop Track {#workshop-track}

Here are the camera-ready and presentaiton requirements for the workshop track

### Checklist 

- Your submission PDF is in the correct format as outlined on the [submission page]({% link submissions.md %}).
- Your submission PDF is not anonymised and the author names and order match the names and order listed in CMT.
- Your submission PDF has the appropriate sections as explained in the [call]({% link call.md %})
- Your submission PDF includes an ethics statement.
- You have an image 1000px in width to upload in the camera-ready form. 
- You are aware and accept that your submission PDF and image will be published on <https://nime2025.org> under a [CC BY 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en).
