submissions.md, before:

---
layout: page  
title: Preparing your submission
permalink: /submissions/
---

This page contains information on how to prepare your submission for NIME2025. You should read this together with the [call for submissions]({% link call.md %})

## Format and Templates

All NIME submissions involve a PDF document using one of our [templates](https://github.com/NIME-conference/nime-template).

**Updates to the NIME template for 2025 will be released by 4 December, 2024**

The template you use should depends on the type of submission you are making:

| Track    | Template | Columns | Anonymised?     |
|----------|----------|---------|-----------------|
| paper    | paper    | 2       | yes             |
| music    | music    | 1       | soft (no names) |
| workshop | music    | 1       | no              |

We provide templates in LaTeX `.tex` and Word `.docx` format. We **highly** suggest using the LaTeX templates as they produce a much more consistent end product. Many NIME authors use [Overleaf](https://www.overleaf.com/) as their LaTeX editor/word processor which provides code and rich text views of your work. 

## Anonymisation

NIME review for the paper and music tracks are double blind; i.e., the reviewers don't know who the authors are and the authors don't know who the reviewers are. To enable this, we ask that all **paper** and **music** submissions are anonymised. All paper category submissions must be anonymised so that no description or information that can reveal the authors' identities is included in the submission (e.g., detailed descriptions of locations, projects names, linked websites, images with faces of authors). Citations to the authors' previous work should preferably be cited in the third person to enable proper review (e.g., "As described in our previous work \[4\]" should be "As described by Martin et al. \[4\]). If this is not possible, specific references may be anonymised.

For **music** submissions, author names should not appear in the PDF submission, video documentation or account names that are linked from submissions. In the interest of practicality, you don’t have to blur or obscure faces in videos or images.

The obvious presence of author names in paper or music submissions is grounds for rejection prior to review.

Workshop submissions do not need to be anonymised.

## Submission Website

- All NIME submissions need to be uploaded to CMT. (opens **4 December, 2024**)

Please note that author names must be entered accurately in CMT by the submission deadline. Authors cannot be added or removed to papers after they have been submitted.

## Media and supplementary material

Music submissions must include a link to video documentation of the proposed work. Many papers will also include a link to video documentation of aspects to the work.

Linked media is encouraged as part of NIME submissions to gain a full understanding of the work. One media file upload is available in CMT as part of your submission. For external media, please use a link to a streaming site (YouTube, Vimeo, Bilibili) with an account that does not obviously give away author names or contain other videos giving away author names.

For publication-ready submissions, you may upload one media file in CMT which will be archived on <https://nime.org> with your PDF submission. We prefer that any linked media in submissions are stored on [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org) and linked in your paper as a DOI to help ensure indefinite persistent storage.

## Preparing publication-ready submissions

Accepted submissions will need to submit updated documents and media by the publication-ready (camera-ready) deadline. These documents should have author names in the same order as listed on CMT, should have all anonymous aspects re-identified and should have clearly engaged with requests for revisions by the reviewers and meta-reviewer. Please note that at least one author must register for NIME by the publication-ready deadline in order to confirm that works will be included in the program.

After the publication-ready deadline the organising committee will double check your work for correct formatting and metadata. We may contact authors to make formatting adjustments prior to the conference and we ask that authors are timely in helping us to resolve such issues.

## No Deadline Extensions

NIME does not extend deadlines for paper or music submissions. We have two stage deadline with titles, abstracts and author lists due by the first deadline and the final submissions due by the second deadline.

## Support during the submission process

The best way to contact the organising committee during the submission period is through the [NIME Forum](https://forum.nime.org) where committee members and the community can help solve problems with templates, CMT, and other issues.

Commit message:

updates to submission page with info boxes

submissions.md, after:

---
layout: page  
title: Preparing your submission
permalink: /submissions/
---

This page contains information on how to prepare your submission for NIME2025. You should read this together with the [call for submissions]({% link call.md %})

{: .warning-box }
The submission website (CMT) and 2025 templates aren't quite ready yet. These should be complete by *4 December, 2024*

## Format and Templates

All NIME submissions involve a PDF document using one of our [templates](https://github.com/NIME-conference/nime-template).

**Updates to the NIME template for 2025 will be released by 4 December, 2024**

The template you use should depends on the type of submission you are making:

| Track    | Template | Columns | Anonymised?     |
|----------|----------|---------|-----------------|
| paper    | paper    | 2       | yes             |
| music    | music    | 1       | soft (no names) |
| workshop | music    | 1       | no              |
{: .table }

We provide templates in LaTeX `.tex` and Word `.docx` format. We **highly** suggest using the LaTeX templates as they produce a much more consistent end product. Many NIME authors use [Overleaf](https://www.overleaf.com/) as their LaTeX editor/word processor which provides code and rich text views of your work. 

## Anonymisation

NIME review for the paper and music tracks are double blind; i.e., the reviewers don't know who the authors are and the authors don't know who the reviewers are. To enable this, we ask that all **paper** and **music** submissions are anonymised. All paper category submissions must be anonymised so that no description or information that can reveal the authors' identities is included in the submission (e.g., detailed descriptions of locations, projects names, linked websites, images with faces of authors). Citations to the authors' previous work should preferably be cited in the third person to enable proper review (e.g., "As described in our previous work \[4\]" should be "As described by Martin et al. \[4\]). If this is not possible, specific references may be anonymised.

For **music** submissions, author names should not appear in the PDF submission, video documentation or account names that are linked from submissions. In the interest of practicality, you don’t have to blur or obscure faces in videos or images.

The obvious presence of author names in paper or music submissions is grounds for rejection prior to review.

Workshop submissions do not need to be anonymised.

## Submission Website

{: .info-box }
The NIME CMT submission website will open by **4 December, 2024**

All NIME submissions need to be uploaded to our submission website on CMT. 

Please note that author names must be entered accurately in CMT by the submission deadline. Authors cannot be added or removed to papers after they have been submitted.

## Media and supplementary material

Music submissions must include a link to video documentation of the proposed work. Many papers will also include a link to video documentation of aspects to the work.

Linked media is encouraged as part of NIME submissions to gain a full understanding of the work. One media file upload is available in CMT as part of your submission. For external media, please use a link to a streaming site (YouTube, Vimeo, Bilibili) with an account that does not obviously give away author names or contain other videos giving away author names.

For publication-ready submissions, you may upload one media file in CMT which will be archived on <https://nime.org> with your PDF submission. We prefer that any linked media in submissions are stored on [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org) and linked in your paper as a DOI to help ensure indefinite persistent storage.

## Preparing publication-ready submissions

Accepted submissions will need to submit updated documents and media by the publication-ready (camera-ready) deadline. These documents should have author names in the same order as listed on CMT, should have all anonymous aspects re-identified and should have clearly engaged with requests for revisions by the reviewers and meta-reviewer. Please note that at least one author must register for NIME by the publication-ready deadline in order to confirm that works will be included in the program.

After the publication-ready deadline the organising committee will double check your work for correct formatting and metadata. We may contact authors to make formatting adjustments prior to the conference and we ask that authors are timely in helping us to resolve such issues.

## No Deadline Extensions

NIME does not extend deadlines for paper or music submissions. We have two stage deadline with titles, abstracts and author lists due by the first deadline and the final submissions due by the second deadline.

## Support during the submission process

The best way to contact the organising committee during the submission period is through the [NIME Forum](https://forum.nime.org) where committee members and the community can help solve problems with templates, CMT, and other issues.
